README.md, before:

# .NET Command Line Parser

This project is about providing an awesome command line parser for .NET.

Goals:

 - Lightweight
 - Very little configuration needed
 - Help strings
 - Support for multiple commands, like version control tools
 - Designed for cross-platform usage

## Syntax

### Single Letter Options

Single character options are delimited by a single dash, e.g.

    .\tool.exe -x -d -f

They can be *bundled* together, such as

    .\tool.exe -xdf

You can also use a slash, e.g.

    .\tool.exe /x /d /f

However, slashes don't support bundling. For example, the following isn't
recognized:

    # This is not equivalent to -xdf
    .\tool.exe /xdf

### Keyword Options

Keyword based options, also known as long-named options, are delimited by two
dashes, such as:

    .\tool.exe --verbose

Alternatively, you can use a slash:

    .\tool.exe /verbose

Using two dashes avoids any ambiguity with bundled forms -- which is why
slashes don't support bundling.

### Option Arguments

Both, the single letter form, as well as the long forms, support arguments.
Arguments must be separated by either a space, an equal sign or a colon:

    # All three forms are identical:
    .\tool.exe /out result.exe
    .\tool.exe /out=result.exe
    .\tool.exe /out:result.exe

Multiple spaces are allowed as well:

    .\tool.exe /out  result.exe
    .\tool.exe /out =   result.exe
    .\tool.exe /out : result.exe

### Parameters

Parameters, sometimes also called non-option arguments, can be anywhere in the
input:

    # Both forms equivalent:
    .\tool.exe input1.ext input2.ext -o result.ext
    .\tool.exe input1.ext -o result.ext input2.ext

### Commands

Very often, command line tools have multiple commands which have independent
syntaxes. Good example are version control tools, e.g.

    .\tool.exe pull origin --all
    .\tool.exe commit -m 'Message'

### Missing

- Add ellipses when printing multi value qualifiers and parameters
- Add argument for non-boolean qualifiers
- Make -? and --help an intrinsic and remove it from the list
- Support undocumented switches
- Consider supporting a case insensitive mode

### Code

- Extract help generation from CommandLineSyntax
- Review argument checks
- Add tests
- Add comments & documentation

## Existing Conventions

* [Unix History][Unix-History]
* [POSIX Conventions][POSIX-Conventions]
* [GNU Standards for Command Line Interfaces][GNU]
* [GNU List of standard option names][GNU-Options]

[Unix-History]: http://catb.org/~esr/writings/taoup/html/ch10s05.html
[POSIX-Conventions]: http://www.cs.unicam.it/piergallini/home/materiale/gc/java/essential/attributes/_posix.html
[GNU]: http://www.gnu.org/prep/standards/html_node/Command_002dLine-Interfaces.html
[GNU-Options]: http://www.gnu.org/prep/standards/html_node/Option-Table.html#Option-Table

Commit message:

Add note that qualifier uniqueness is currently too strong

README.md, after:

# .NET Command Line Parser

This project is about providing an awesome command line parser for .NET.

Goals:

 - Lightweight
 - Very little configuration needed
 - Help strings
 - Support for multiple commands, like version control tools
 - Designed for cross-platform usage

## Syntax

### Single Letter Options

Single character options are delimited by a single dash, e.g.

    .\tool.exe -x -d -f

They can be *bundled* together, such as

    .\tool.exe -xdf

You can also use a slash, e.g.

    .\tool.exe /x /d /f

However, slashes don't support bundling. For example, the following isn't
recognized:

    # This is not equivalent to -xdf
    .\tool.exe /xdf

### Keyword Options

Keyword based options, also known as long-named options, are delimited by two
dashes, such as:

    .\tool.exe --verbose

Alternatively, you can use a slash:

    .\tool.exe /verbose

Using two dashes avoids any ambiguity with bundled forms -- which is why
slashes don't support bundling.

### Option Arguments

Both, the single letter form, as well as the long forms, support arguments.
Arguments must be separated by either a space, an equal sign or a colon:

    # All three forms are identical:
    .\tool.exe /out result.exe
    .\tool.exe /out=result.exe
    .\tool.exe /out:result.exe

Multiple spaces are allowed as well:

    .\tool.exe /out  result.exe
    .\tool.exe /out =   result.exe
    .\tool.exe /out : result.exe

### Parameters

Parameters, sometimes also called non-option arguments, can be anywhere in the
input:

    # Both forms equivalent:
    .\tool.exe input1.ext input2.ext -o result.ext
    .\tool.exe input1.ext -o result.ext input2.ext

### Commands

Very often, command line tools have multiple commands which have independent
syntaxes. Good example are version control tools, e.g.

    .\tool.exe pull origin --all
    .\tool.exe commit -m 'Message'

### Missing

- Qualifiers must currently be unique across all commands. That's not desired.
  We want them to be unique only across the global and the current command.
- Add ellipses when printing multi value qualifiers and parameters
- Add argument for non-boolean qualifiers
- Make -? and --help an intrinsic and remove it from the list
- Support undocumented switches
- Consider supporting a case insensitive mode

### Code

- Extract help generation from CommandLineSyntax
- Review argument checks
- Add tests
- Add comments & documentation

## Existing Conventions

* [Unix History][Unix-History]
* [POSIX Conventions][POSIX-Conventions]
* [GNU Standards for Command Line Interfaces][GNU]
* [GNU List of standard option names][GNU-Options]

[Unix-History]: http://catb.org/~esr/writings/taoup/html/ch10s05.html
[POSIX-Conventions]: http://www.cs.unicam.it/piergallini/home/materiale/gc/java/essential/attributes/_posix.html
[GNU]: http://www.gnu.org/prep/standards/html_node/Command_002dLine-Interfaces.html
[GNU-Options]: http://www.gnu.org/prep/standards/html_node/Option-Table.html#Option-Table
